#summary Things TO DO in near future
#labels Phase-Implementation,TODO

= Introduction =

Here is some things that we think will be necessary in future


= Improvements =

== Create a syntax option to validade zTag on disassemble time ==
The zTag project do not have any way to check if an especific zTag syntax is correct. The idea is to create a way to help the developer to add the syntax during the developing time, without to create another file. I think we can create another "function", that will return the zTag syntax in array in a formated string.

=== zDB:Open string syntax ===
{{{
case :open:syntax"
  return 'zdb:open id="[\w\d]+" driver="(mysql|mssql|pgsql)" host="[\w\d]+" database="[\w\d]+" user="[\w\d]+" password="[\w\d]+"';
  break;
}}}
  * Use the RegEx do validate each parameter;

  * The result of RegEx evaluation will determine if the parameter is optional or not;

  * You do not need to worry with variables info, the preprocessor will add it automatically.

=== zDB:Open array syntax ===
{{{
case :open:syntax"
return array ('zdb' => array (
                'open' => array(
                  'id' => '[\w\d]+'
                  , 'driver' => '(mysql|mssql|pgsql)'
                  , 'host' => '[\w\d]+'
                  , 'database' => '[\w\d]+' 
                  , 'user' => '[\w\d]+'
                  , 'password' => '[\w\d]+')));
  break;
}}}

  * Both ways are the same. The disassembler will convert the string to array;

  * This way save processing time;

  * This array was modeled to be used in a big syntax array file.

By Ruben Zevallos Jr. in 2011-Apr-4

== Read zTag folder file list to array ==
Every time each zTag is played, the processor have to do 2 checks. 
  # Check if the zTag check function exist;
  # if not, it have to check if the zTag file exist too.

The idea is to load all zTag files parameters inside an array one time, saving access disc time.

By Ruben Zevallos Jr. in 2011-Apr-4

== "Install" command to save time on zTag.inc.php file check ==
Following the same idea to read all zTag file info to an array, the idea is to save more time create an optional "Install" command to:

  # Create a ztagcompiled.inc.php file with all info needed to:
    * Know about each zTag avaliable;
    * Every zTag syntax.

By Ruben Zevallos Jr. in 2011-Apr-4

== ztagC - A compiled zTag file ==
Imagine that you can save some or all of you zTag files, just adding the parameter ?compile=true during the execution?

The idea is to use the disassemble information to create a parameterizable file with:
  * Domain execution restriction;
  * IP execution restriction;
  * Start and/or final date and time available for execution;
  * Trial date and time available;
  * Key to validate the execution time;
  * URL to check if the license is OK;
  * How many times the URL checker will execute.

The compiler will just generate all of above parameters and save a .ztagc file. The disassembler always will first look for the compiled file, before to look for the regular.

By Ruben Zevallos Jr. in 2011-Apr-4

= Corrections =

== Finish the zDoc tag ==
The zDoc was started to read the zTag documentation syntax (check at [CodingStandards]) and create all zTag HTML and wiki manual.

Both, wiki and HTML files will have markups to define information from zDoc processing info and user adding info.